In this lecture, I will show you how
mockito spy works and how we can use
it to implement partial mocking to do
that you will be reusing the order
processing service but will not be
testing the order processing code but will  be
testing the java dot.itil.list class
itself by is writing a very small
test against it the reason I want to
use this is we don't want to spend time
on adding the mockito dependencies
and all that so right click on the test
folder here say New go to other type in
junit select the junit test case
click on next change the package name
from com.bharath to com.bharath.mockito.spy and the name of the
class let's call it list test click
finish so we have our test case here maximize
by double clicking on the name declare
a failed lists my list is equal to lets have a
type string new array list control one to
import it ctrl one again to import
java.utl.list save it now to
partially mock this list will mark it
with @spy annotation from mockito so
hit ctrl one on the spy import it from
org.mockito.spy so now all the
methods on this list will be called the
real method will be called if we don't
stub them out
let's initialize mockito by having public
void init method and in here and say
mockito annotations.finish mock this
mark this method with the @before
junit annotation ctrl1 import it so far we
have declared this object to be spied and
we aren't stubbed out any methods let's
stubbout some methods now or even
before we stubout let's call my list.add bharath
my list.add one more name
here you can add your name if you want
i'm going to add my brother's name
sarath so this call here he's calling
the real method now let me show you how
to stubout something on a spy to stub a method
call on a spy  we can't do when we can't
directly use when class i will show you why in
in in the next step we have to use do
mockito. doreturn and then my
list.do return 3. when my list dot size is
called although the size here is only 2
i'm mocking out just to show you that the
size is 3 now we can assert, assert same
three comma my list.size I'll
explain everything in a minute once we wrap this up
right click go to run as junit test
everything is green so what exactly
happened here is we have partially
mocked the list array list class here and
we have used the syntax do written to
mockout one of the methods which is the
size method on this my list and when we
are calling the ad it is really calling
the add method on the arraylist now let me
show you what happens if I try to add
when mockito.when my list.add or
my list dot get 0 dot then return so I'm
mocking out a method call of get when get
0 is called I want to return a value of
let's say rambo i just want to show you
why we can't use the when syntax to start
with then we are using a spy now if I
take these two out from here and run
this test case junit you will see a index
out of bounds because my list dot get
here is actually calling the real method
so you can never use this syntax because
spy by default it will be calling the
real methods so you should always use
this syntax wherein you first say do
written and then the when class. In the next
lecture i'll explain the difference
between a mock and a spy in little more
detail and how it works in mockito but
always remember that if you want to do
partial mocking you can use the spy
mark a class with spy and the real
methods will be called by default if you
want to stub out you should use the do
return syntax there is another way to do
partial mocking which i will talk
about in the next lecture.